# Primus Live

This is a simple development setup for Node.js apps, with minimal dependency
on other packages and maximal freedom to organise the app's source files:

* uses [Primus][P] to manage a WebSocket connection between server and client
* automatic WebSocket reconnect with back-off (handled by Primus)
* uses [Connect][N] to serve all static files in the `app/` folder
* can compile [Jade][J] (.jade) and [MarkDown][M] (.md) files to HMTL (.html)
* can compile [Stylus][S] (.styl) files to CSS (.css)
* can compile [CoffeeScript][C] (.coffee) files to JavaScript (.js)
* clients do not care about this, they just fetch .html, .css, and .js files
* the server tells each client to reload HTML or refresh CSS when a file changes
* the server will restart _itself_ whenever a source code file changes
* scans for plugins to include custom host- and/or client-side logic
* simple application modularity: each plugin is a subfolder in the `app/` folder
* auto-installs [npm][K] and [Bower][W] package dependencies in top-level folder
* will run `make` for all the subfolders which contain a `Makefile`
* no temporary files are saved to disk (other than what the above tools use)

Primus Live is not needed for production, deploy your app in any way you like

## Quick start

Enter these commands to create and launch a new app with Primus Live:

```
mkdir mydemo mydemo/app
cd mydemo
echo '{"name":"mydemo"}' >package.json
npm install primus-live --save
echo "require('primus-live');" >index.js
node .
```

The server can now be accessed on its default port at <http://localhost:3333/>.

## Included example

This simple demo connects and reports tick events from the server. It uses
Jade, Stylus, and CoffeeScript (HTML, CSS, and JavaScript would also work):

### app/index.jade

```
!!!
html(lang='en')
  head
    meta(charset='utf-8')
    title Primus Live Example
    link(rel='stylesheet',href='/style.css')

  body
    h1 Server time
    p#tick

    script(src='/primus/primus.js')
    script(src='/app.js')
```

### app/style.styl

```stylus
body
  margin 50px
```

### app/app.coffee

```coffee
primus = new Primus

primus.on 'data', (data) ->
  if typeof data is 'number'
    el = document.getElementById 'tick'
    el.innerHTML = new Date(data)
```

### app/launch.coffee

```coffee
module.exports = (app) ->

  app.config.plugin.tick =
    server: (primus) ->
      setInterval ->
        primus.write Date.now()
      , 1000
    client: (primus) ->
      primus.transform 'incoming', (packet) ->
        if typeof packet.data is 'number'
          console.log 'tick', packet.data

  app.on 'running', ->
    console.info "server listening on port :#{app.config.port}"
```

## Startup

Launch the example as follows and then go to <http://localhost:3333/>:

```
  npm install
  cd example
  node ..
```

It will keep running, compiling (in memory) and serving files as needed. Touch
or change any of the files in the `app/` folder to see live-reload in action.

### primus.js

This transport-specific wrapper (here [engine.io][E]) is generated by Primus.
It also includes the client-side code of all plugins, so they can be initialised
when the Primus connection object is created on the client.

## Plugins

If there are subfolders in './app', these will be used to define additional
plugins. Put host-side code in a file named 'host.coffee' (or .js), and put
client-side code in a file called 'client.coffee' (or .js) and it automatically
gets picked up, i.e. launched on the server and/or sent and run on the clients.

The host-side code must export a single function taking 'app' and `primus` as
arguments - this will be called as part of the Primus initialisation sequence.

The client-side code can be anything, it is sent over and run as is (note that
this happens _before_ the client-side Primus instance gets created).

If there is a `package.json` file in the plugin folder, then all dependencies
will be installed in the top level before the live server starts running. If
a `bower.json` file is found, then those dependencies will get installed too.
Version numbers are not yet honoured, the latest versions will be installed.

Lastly, if a `Makefile` is found, then `make` will be called (no further args).

## Your own app

See the **[Quick start](#quick-start)** section above for getting started.

Load `primus.js` followed by a `new Primus();` on each page load to keep a
real-time bi-directional WebSocket connection open, including the automatic
live-reload. This is is particularly easy to do with single-page applications.

Live-reload is implemented by sending `true` or `false` over the WebSocket
(as JSON). These two values should be ignored in your own code when listening
for `data` events on the `primus` object.

### app/launch.{coffee,js}

If this file exists, it will be loaded before the scanning and loading of
plugins starts. It is called with the Connect `app` object as argument.

* set `app.config.transport` to change the `engine.io` default for Primus
* set `app.config.port` to change the server port of the app (default 3333)

### Event 'setup'

This event on `app` fires after all plugins have been loaded, but before the
server and Primus objects are created (which calls the host-side plugins).

The `app.config.plugin` object can still be adjusted at this point, this will
affect the actual list of host- and client-side plugins installed by Primus.
Keep in mind that the `client` functions will be stringified before use, they
cannot contain any host-side variable closures.

### Event 'running'

This event on `app` fires once the server is running and accepting connections.
All the host-side plugins have been installed at this point. The client-side
scripts will be loaded in the browser(s) as part of the connection process.

## Standalone use

The Primus Live package is not required for production use, i.e. when you don't
want to "preflight" `npm` / `bower` installations and don't need to restart
the server because no source code changes will be made. In this case, copy the
`worker.coffee` file into your own project and run it as `coffee worker`.

For high-end scenarios, the scripts could all be pre-compiled and served using
a fast static file server such as `nginx`, with a dedicated WebSocket server
to provide just the real-time side of things (this hasn't been tried yet).

## License

MIT

[A]: http://angularjs.org/
[B]: http://bower.io/
[C]: http://coffeescript.org/
[E]: https://github.com/LearnBoost/engine.io
[F]: http://foundation.zurb.com/
[G]: https://github.com/3rd-Eden/primus#plugins
[J]: http://jade-lang.com/
[K]: https://npmjs.org/
[M]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[N]: http://www.senchalabs.org/connect/
[P]: https://medium.com/the-build/22af5c94a922
[S]: http://learnboost.github.io/stylus/
[W]: http://bower.io/
[X]: https://github.com/3rd-Eden/primus/tree/master/example
